"I have been used to consider poetry as the food of love," said Darcy. 
"Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may. Everything nourishes what is strong already. But if it be only
a slight, thin sort of inclination, I am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away." 
Darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made Elizabeth tremble lest her mother
should be exposing herself again. She longed to speak, but could think of nothing to say; and
after a short silence Mrs. Bennet began repeating her thanks to Mr. Bingley for his kindness to
Jane, with an apology for troubling him also with Lizzy. Mr. Bingley was unaffectedly civil in his
answer, and forced his younger sister to be civil also, and say what the occasion required. She
performed her part indeed without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and soon
afterwards ordered her carriage. Upon this signal, the youngest of her daughters put herself
forward. The two girls had been whispering to each other during the whole visit, and the result
of it was, that the youngest should tax Mr. Bingley with having promised on his first coming into
the country to give a ball at Netherfield. 
Lydia was a stout, well-grown girl of fifteen, with a fine complexion and good-humoured
countenance; a favourite with her mother, whose affection had brought her into public at an
early age. She had high animal spirits, and a sort of natural self-consequence, which the
attention of the officers, to whom her uncle's good dinners, and her own easy manners
recommended her, had increased into assurance. She was very equal, therefore, to address Mr.
Bingley on the subject of the ball, and abruptly reminded him of his promise; adding, that it
would be the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it. His answer to this sudden
attack was delightful to their mother's ear: 
"I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and when your sister is recovered,
you shall, if you please, name the very day of the ball. But you would not wish to be dancing
when she is ill." 
Lydia declared herself satisfied. "Oh! yes—it would be much better to wait till Jane was well, and
by that time most likely Captain Carter would be at Meryton again. And when you have
given your ball," she added, "I shall insist on their giving one also. I shall tell Colonel Forster it will
be quite a shame if he does not." 
Mrs. Bennet and her daughters then departed, and Elizabeth returned instantly to Jane, leaving
her own and her relations' behaviour to the remarks of the two ladies and Mr. Darcy; the latter of
whom, however, could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of her, in spite of all Miss
Bingley's witticisms on fine eyes. 
